# This is a Twelve-factor App

### I. Codebase
- VSTS Source control ensures a common codebase.
- Deploys: local and staging (Azure App Service Deployment Slots)
- Latest master code is always deployed to staging.

### II. Dependencies
- Most third-party libraries are managed via NuGet, npm, and bower. 
- Those that aren't available via package managers are explicitly included ("vendored") with the source code.
- No environmental (GAC or OS) dependencies, not counting an OWIN-based web server and the .NET framework.

### III. Config
- Configuration settings specific to environment are effectively contained in the environment via Slot Settings in the Azure App Service.

### IV. Backing Services
- Backing services:
    - SQL Server/Azure (persistence)
    - Application Insights (monitoring)
    - SendGrid (SMTP)
- All are represented and swappable in configuration (not code).

### V. Build, release, run
- Code, Build, Release, and Runtime are separated as described.
- The VSTS Build operates on the latest code, directly from source control.
- Release to staging is exclusively performed by the automated build.
- Code is not altered directly on the server.

### VI. Processes
- State that spans sessions is stored in the database. Session state is stored outside of the web process, using Redis.

### VII. Port binding
- This is handled by the use of ASP.NET and OWIN. If I have translated this section into Microsoft terms correctly.
- Core app code is ignorant of the fact that it is running in a web server process, and does not hold any reference to `System.Web`.

### VIII. Concurrency
- The app's RESTful, stateless, Web API-based architecture ensures that the server side of the app can be scaled out to handle increased pressure without side effects.
- Entity Framework's async/await integration enables efficient use of web process resources.

### IX. Disposability
- Hosting the app as a scaled Azure Web Site addresses these concerns.

### X. Dev/prod parity
- The time gap is addressed by continuous deployment. Developers are encouraged to commit smaller changes more often, rather than sitting on local changes for days.
- The personnel gap is addressed by a solid, consistent development team, who are directly involved in deployment and observation of the deployed system.
- The tools gap presents a possible violation in that various SQL Server versions are used in local developer environments, while SQL Azure is used in Staging (and will be used in Production). However, there is no local SQL Azure emulator available, and keeping our code agnostic of the specific SQL Server edition seems like a gap we want to enforce. A tight parity between staging and Production is achieved via Slot Deployment.

### XI. Logs
- API-level actions are recorded as events in Application Insights.
- Unhandled exceptions are also recorded in App Insights. 

### XII. Admin processes
- What admin functionality there is resides in the web API and app, and thusly runs in the same process as the app, as recommended.
